Hi guys and welcome back.
In this video we're going to be
closing individual tabs using a shortcut.
So let's go ahead and start with that.
We're gonna create a function
called close current tab.
So I'm gonna go ahead and implement it here.
Close current tab.
And what it's gonna do, is it's gonna get the current tab.
So we'll say current is get text widget.
And then we'll do notebook, don't forget current.
Now let's add a shortcut for this.
So in the file menu,
we're gonna add a shortcut for it
so just before exit, we'll do file menu and command.
The label is gonna be close tab and
the command is gonna be close current tab.
And the accelerator is gonna be Ctrl plus Q.
Next up, we're also gonna add a shortcut.
So we'll do root.bind control-q
and the event is close current tab.
All right, let's run the app and see what happens.
So control Q and the tab is closed.
Create new and it comes back.
Of course if you do, create multiple tabs,
you can then close them individually.
Now if the tab is unsaved, you want to be able
to tell the user that they have unsaved changes
and they probably shouldn't close
the tab until they save them.
So let's do that first of all.
We would say, if the current tab is unsaved,
and the confirm close then we will do notebook forget.
So two functions here that don't exist
that we have to implement.
So let's go ahead and do current tab unsaved.
What this is going to do,
is it's going to get the current text widget.
So we'll say text widget is get text widget.
Then it's gonna get the content
and finally its going to see whether
it matches the stuff in the dictionary.
So we'll say return hash of content
is different from text contents str text widget.
So if this returns true,
this tab is unsaved.
Next up, let's do a confirm close.
So this is gonna do return messagebox.askyesno
and it's going to contain the stuff
that we have down here.
I just gonna make it a little bit more generic
and by saying that you've got unsaved changes
and call it closed.
All right, so what we've got here now is this logic.
If the current tab is unsaved,
which means we need to save it,
and we confirm that we do want to close
then we will forget the current tab.
But there's a piece of logic missing.
What if the current tab is not unsaved.
What if the current tab is actually all right to be closed?
Well at no point in this function would we close that tab.
So we want to do the following,
which is that we wanna invert this confirm close.
The current tab is unsaved and not confirm close.
Then we will just return.
Otherwise we will forget the tab.
Okay, it's important to test your application
and make sure to verify the different scenarios
to make sure that you don't miss out on any important logic.
Like we almost did here.
Next up, we wanna fix another problem.
Which is that if I run the application
and I run this tab, you can see that
we've got a pretty ugly window here.
So let's create an empty file
if we don't have any left.
So we'll say, if the len of notebook.tabs is 1.
That is before we forget the current tab,
then we're going to create a new one.
All right, let's press play now.
And you can see that as we press control Q
which I am doing, promise.
Then this stays there.
That's because we are creating new ones.
Okay, let's press control Q now
and you can see that we get this message box.
You have unsaved changes and you should go in and close.
And we're gonna say no and it stays.
We're gonna press yes and it goes away and we get a new one.
Going down to the confirm quit.
Here what we're gonna do is
we are going to use our function.
So we say, not and not confirm close.
Then we will return.
So just making use of those confirm close function
that we defined above made it a bit more generic
so that we could use it in both closing a tab,
and closing the application
and that makes our code a little bit cleaner,
a little bit shorter as well.
That's everything for this video.
Thank you for joining me.
I hope you've learned something
and I'll see you in the next one.